---
layout: blog-post
title:  "Beer style- IPA (INDIA Pale Ale)"
description: "Alcohol is a generic term used to describe any potable beverage containing ethanol. It can be classified into the following categories."
date:   2014-01-29 18:48:11
tags: wine, liqueur, liquor, beer
categories: all_spirits
author: simi
 og_image_url:http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-rBCKvkxN_pk/UKq2_rinwuI/AAAAAAAABbI/PnigvDaQPZg/s1600/beer.jpg
---
 

 ***Beer is a generic name for alcoholic beverages produced by fermenting a cereal or a mixture of cereals, flavored with hops. ( Hops are climbing vine that produces flowers or “cones” which contribute bitterness and aroma in beer. They also act as a natural preservative and help clarify the beer during the brewing process).

#### Basic ingredients

* water
* hops
* brewer’s yeast
* barley 

#### So how many “types” of beer are there? 

#### Two: ales and lagers. (Just like red and white wines).

 Ale is a generic term used for beers produced by top fermentation. They generally are higher in alcohol content, heartier and darker than lagers which are bottom fermented.

## India Pale ale## falls under the ale category. It was brewed in England for British troops stationed in India in the 18th century. IPA's were brewed very strong, highly hopped (hops were used as preservatives) to survive a voyage that could take as long as six months. The addition of hops makes the beer taste strong and bitter. Thus, IPA's were born out of  necessity.
og_image_url:http://d3pddo38v7j30h.cloudfront.net/blog/wp-content/uploads/2009/09/ipa_web.jpg

#### Tasting Notes:

IPA's are usually golden to amber in color. A good IPA is pleasantly hoppy (bitter) with the sweetness from the malt balancing it. Hops make the beer difficult to pair with most of the Indian dishes unless the dish has a sweet taste to it like barbeque sauce. 

If you are the kind who prefers a strong tasting beer that leaves a long lasting finish, You should definitely try this one out. If you are a sucker for lager beers, I   still suggest that it's time to get adventurous. Remember to gulp responsibly!

###Here is to a happy gulping###  :)


